ADR-0011 - Discovery Requires Unique ID (#374)
home-assistant/architecture: adr/0011-discovery-requires-unique-id.md

# 0011. Discovery Requires Unique ID

Date: 2020-04-27

## Status

Accepted

## Context

There is a mechanism to ignore discovered config flows using unique ids
attached to config entries but not all integrations may set an unique id
due to lack of truly unique identifiers or just not having been updated for
concerns of backward compatibility.

This creates a UX issue that has started to become more pronounced with more config flows
being added every release (which is awesome!). The real issue is that not all discovery processes 
are created equal and that becomes an issue for consistency.

## Proposal

All new integrations with discoverable config flows should be required to set a
unique id during discovery.

All existing integrations with discoverable config flows should be reviewed for
possible ways to improve identification during discovery. A whitelist could be developed
to allow existing integrations to remain functional under new requirements.

If a unique id can not be made available, such as on older devices that lack unique identifiers
in zeroconf/SSDP/API/etc, then the config entry should not be shown to the user.

## Decision

> Integrations that are discoverable must provide an unique id (via `async_set_unique_id`) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integrations that are discoverable must provide a unique id (via `async_set_unique_id`) 
```

# 0011. Discovery Requires Unique ID

Date: 2020-04-27

## Status

Accepted

## Context

There is a mechanism to ignore discovered config flows using unique ids attached to config flow
but not all integrations may set an unique id due to lack of truly unique identifiers

> or just not having been updated for concerns of backwards compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or just not having been updated for concerns of backward compatibility.
```

> This creates an UX issue that has started to become more pronounced with more config flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a UX issue that has started to become more pronounced with more config flows
```

> being added every release (which is awesome!). The real issue is not all discovery processes 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
being added every release (which is awesome!). The real issue is that not all discovery processes 
```

are created equal and that becomes an issue for consistency.

## Proposal

> All new integratons with discoverable config flows should be required to set an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All new integratons with discoverable config flows should be required to set a
```

Reviewer 2: I've added your suggestion, as "integrations" was misspelled here as well.

unique id during discovery.

All existing integrations with discoverable config flows should be reviewed for
possible ways to improve identification during discovery. A whitelist could be developed
to allow existing integrations to remain functional under new requirements.

> If an unique id can sometimes not be available such as older devices that lack unique identifiers
> in zeroconf/ssdp/api/etc then the config entry should not be shown to user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a unique id can not be made available, such as on older devices that lack unique identifiers
in zeroconf/ssdp/api/etc, then the config entry should not be shown to user.
```

Reviewer 2: Edited your suggestion, as SSDP, API should be capitalized as well and `the` was missing before `user`.

## Decision

To protect project goals and to provide clarity to our users and contributors,

> we're introducing the following rules on how discoverable integrations need to be designed:

Reviewer: I think we can drop this. It seems to be copied from ADR 10.
